IPZSrev1: PID data model SD-JWT and Issuance flow (#28)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-issuing.rst

    - National IdP: It represents preexisting identity systems based on SAML2 or OIDC, already in production in each Member State (for Italy SPID and CIE id authentication schemed notified eIDAS with *LoA* **High**).
    
.. _fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing:
.. figure:: ../../images/High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center

    PID Issuing - General architecture and high level flow

The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuing of a PID, in particular:

    0. **Wallet Instance Setup**: the first time the Wallet Instance is started a preliminary setup phase MUST be carried out. It consists of the release of a verifiable proof issued by the Attestation Service provided by the Wallet Provider that asserts the genuineness, the authenticity and the compliance with a trust framework of the Wallet Instance. The verifiable proof binds a public key corresponding to a local private key generated by the Wallet Instance. 
    1. **Obtaining the trusted PID Provider**: the Wallet Instance queries the Trust Anchor to fetch the trusted PID Provider. 

>     2. **Obtaining of PID Provider metadata**: the Wallet Instance fetches the Entity Statement of the PID Provider from the Trust Anchor and can establish the trust and obtain the Metadata that discloses the types of PIDs, their formats, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

Reviewer: where's the openid credential issuer metadata enclosed in the federation entity configuration?
the non normative example I mean

Reviewer 2: we need a non-normative example of the answer given by` /.well-known/openid-federation`

Author: Yes, we will provide it as soon as possible.

The Wallet Instance Setup phase is described in Section [...]. In the following Section the steps from 1 to 5 are further expanded into more technical detailed steps. 

Detailed Flow
-------------

The PID Issuing phase is based on the **Authorization Code Flow** with **Pushed Authorization Requests** (PAR) [:rfc:`9126`] and **PKCE** (Proof Key for Code Exchange, :rfc:`7636`) as recommended in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13. Section 3.4] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#section-3.4>`_. A *Wallet Initiated Flow* is considered and the User receives the PID directly in response to the Credential Request (*Immediate Flow*) on the same device as the device the Wallet Instance resides on (*Same-device*). 

.. _fig_Low-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing:
.. figure:: ../../images/Low-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center

>     :target: http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/hLHHQoCt47xNhnXo1xt0Xhu7V5noSI-cePWqnxqK5dbtx1sobhRIA3xtrtSaUHUjcnuf5FpWrSmttyptQVJ9itOSzhtIWQq9-mqwfGOveuO6RHWkldfq5w0z1AKszdi--Cc3tqlMq5c35_3kWNOTt_O1vzXRPmyJNCzZttJV8yFAI0kcmPHpK6XQ41RrQkxQsHTgJ_KsPpdhrTqyWSuIS7LtypkKQV27UNB1CxRmG9uJYfLIYqLA8-y3cHt0Og7K0Qu-GhW6ks5D1eusk9Ya0bn9u70DH_HAEMCPmRv8xKF5yExR_UffgKuO3RsmWDt2o5es4qTFSE6w-YXCZJLRSdlW3i5ZZmsJDOAUerGGVg6tpsVi9Awiljm_VNbSBdzJPsf3qs7pxAMsvaWmbuKyHEM4AyL-GJdKYLsRTbI0sCCUMRUQTTaxH3b0sdUeMGh_-dafexG8qXPj2TqfXoHdVVC8Z_XdGC_mmQ4VhF5Oyt702fgUq71DRPNWTTF54SmEpxzhwQApakPofGcglKSNsougbiUBzrcLKPGRPe6dGTzVGgacLPkPcZErpgNCHT-Yve_hUDePpS6X8Cl2HPiG3KbElEYUMk8Z55OeodTp4ZhhAqfdeUhWg0ByFf18NvEv5CWXGOA-XfiWgZhwAnDDBXMs56KkLT09IVyPgEP2Xt5fWfTlBRK4HKqkTY3k8E_nFUswD7qJPp9Sp4sd6U2ibqA1U8CgY2hYrFhXZVd57T-XYLuYtAtj6fxn-A-nmLbnSMlTVDFOFgC1QNsm93CKg_4aaKczF7XHg5HpvxJXyOhRTjoFSTt-btM8dhNai1bDepncxhDKIZSDUb-dmQeyN-OhBffmryOAnVIdnYdughvRYNLHu2HX8ysWOTBzFz-Rh8_y1Yk3UHzz_91PidL5_e_TANacYmg7Fa_HLsmgPOZNT6xUXAnRt9AXg74L-VUQgvnrMQx5-9RVFdnTgaVSaMSv5RU0EopQl7BOQyOM59bSJGgdkV9jo6lqiyCNs-GOb7kJfIadAumzTLUmlTd6AEhqG8aOQP62pozUaUVPEYpT_IJDXNt_Dm00

Reviewer: https instead of http if you agree

Author: done

The following is a non-normative example of the PAR.

.. code-block::

    POST /as/par HTTP/1.1
    Host: pid.it
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    
    response_type=code
    &client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &code_challenge=E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM
    &code_challenge_method=S256
    &request=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ew0KIC Jpc3MiOiAiczZCaGRSa3F0MyIsDQogImF1ZCI6ICJodHRwczovL3NlcnZlci5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsDQo gInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsDQogImNsaWVudF9pZCI6ICJzNkJoZFJrcXQz IiwNCiAicmVkaXJlY3RfdXJpIjogImh0dHBzOi8vY2xpZW50LmV4YW1...

>     &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer

Reviewer 2: We used for the wallet instance attestation:
`urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation` 
do we agree on a unique format? @peppelinux

Reviewer: indeed

@fmarino-ipzs please chage to `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation` even because the wallet instance attestation is not a bearer token :-)

Author: I was wondering if it is better to consider `urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation` according to[ this spec](https://vcstuff.github.io/draft-looker-oauth-attested-key-based-client-authentication/draft-looker-oauth-attested-key-based-client-authentication.html#name-sub-namespace-registration-), instead of `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation`.  
What do you think?

Author: As just discussed with @peppelinux we decide to adopt `urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation` in support of vcstuff. @grausof please align this in the wallet instance solution.

Reviewer 2: OK! Thanks you

Reviewer: thank you guys, we'll have a lot of debates on many details along the list of the drafts that still divide us to our goal ... :-)

    &client_assertion=$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 

The JWT payload of PAR is given as the following:

.. code-block:: JSON

> 

Reviewer: please also add the jwt header here in a separate code-block

Reviewer: @fmarino-ipzs I'm worried that `.. code-block:: JSON` compilation fails if it finds a dot between two json objects

Author: Done

Reviewer: not sure, I'm resolving this and I push a commitable suggestion

    {
    "response_type":"code",
    "client_id":$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$,
    "state":"fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd",
    "code_challenge":"E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM",
    "code_challenge_method":"S256",
    "authorization_details":[
    {
        "type":"openid_credential",
        "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
        "credential_definition": {
            "type": ["eu.eudiw.pid.it"]
        }
    }
    ],

>     "redirect_uri":"eudiw://start.wallet.it",

Reviewer: please always use *.example.{org, net, com} in non normative example

Author: done

    "client_assertion_type":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer",
    "client_assertion":$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 
    }

.. note::

>     **Federation Check:** PID Provider needs to check that the Wallet Provider is part of the federation and in addition it should verify Wallet Instance Attestation validity by checking its signature and the validity of the claims inside it. 

Reviewer: should -> must

Author: Yes, you are right. I fix it

Author: done

.. note::

    The Wallet Instance redirect URI is a universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
 
.. code-block:: 

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Location: eudiw://start.wallet.it?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd
 
**Steps 12-13:** The Wallet Instance creates a key for DPoP and a fresh DPoP proof for the token request to the PID Provider. DPoP provides a way to bind the access token to a certain sender (Wallet Instance) `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint of PID Provider as the attacker needs to present a valid DPoP proof.

**Step 14:** The Wallet Instance sends a token request to the PID Provider's token endpoint using the authorization *code*, *code_verifier* and *DPoP proof*, and *Wallet Instance Attestation*. The *Wallet Instance Attestation* is used to perform the Wallet Instance authentication at the token endpoint as it is defined in [:rfc:`7521`]. 

.. code-block::

    POST /token HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.it

Reviewer: please, use example.org in non-normative examples

Author: done

    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE
        QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj
        oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia
        WF0IjoxNTYyMjYyNjE2fQ.2-GxA6T8lP4vfrg8v-FdWP0A0zdrj8igiMLvqRMUvwnQg
        4PtFLbdLXiOSsX0x7NVY-FNyJK70nfbV37xRZT3Lg

    client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &grant_type=authorization_code
    &code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA

>     &redirect_uri=eudiw://start.wallet.it

Reviewer: please, use example.org in non-normative examples

Author: done

    &code_verifier=dBjftJeZ4CVP-mB92K27uhbUJU1p1r_wW1gFWFOEjXk

>     &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer

Reviewer: please use `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation`

Author: We decided to use `urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation`

Reviewer: changed to jwt-key-attestation I assume.

is it missing from the last commits?

Author: Yes this is in the last commit.

    &client_assertion=$WalletInstanceAttestation$

**Step 15:** The PID Provider validates the request and if it is successful, it issues an *access token* (bound to the DPoP key) and a fresh *c_nonce*.  

.. code-block::

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-store
    
    {
    "access_token": "Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU",
    "token_type": "DPoP",
    "expires_in": 2677,
    "c_nonce": "tZign[...]snFbp",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

> **Steps 16-18:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh key pair the new credential shall be bound to.  Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID credential issuance endpoint.  

Reviewer 2: The key pair of the wallet instance is created during the creation of the wallet instance attestation, therefore the PID will be linked to the same public key of the wallet instance attestation previously sent.
Otherwise the PID provider cannot be sure that the wallet instance attestation belongs to the instance with which it is communicating

Reviewer 3: We decide not to use the same keys for various purposes. This is the main reason that we are creating fresh key pairs for both DPoP and Credential at Steps 16 to 18. The PID Provider first authenticates the instance at the PAR endpoint. This request is signed with the key pair created during the creation of the wallet instance attestation and it is verified using the public key inside the wallet instance attestation. In this way, it can link the attestation it received to the wallet instance attestation. Secondly, the PID Provider can check the sub in the wallet instance attestation is equal to the client_id of the wallet instance. I hope this answer your concerns.

Reviewer 2: This seems to me to be at odds then with the idea of the SDK as the keys must always be generated by the device. I don't understand the added value of generating a new key pair. It will be up to the wallet instance to decide when to generate new keys and therefore new attestations. 

In other words, the wallet instance attestation assures me that that public key has been generated correctly, instead introducing a new key pair without the associated attestation no one will be able to certify that that key has been generated correctly and is not compromised!

@peppelinux what do you think?

Reviewer 3: The keys are always generated by the device so I didn't get the first part of your comment. The wallet instance attestation will be checked again at Step 14 before releasing the Token and the fresh key generation is happening at Step 16, so I don't expect in this short period of time something is going to happen. From my point of view, there is a good reason from the security perspective on not to use the same keys for different purposes.

Author: The PID is not be bound to the same public key of the wallet instance attestation. The purpose of the holder binding is to verify that the holder has the control over the crittographic material the credential is bound to. We don't require to check that the credential was obtained with the same wallet isntance attestation. If you bind the credential to the same public key of the WA, what happen when the WA expires? You must revoke the credential?

Reviewer 2: ok, @fmarino-ipzs  you convinced me! However, this still implies that the public boundend within the PID must always exist, correct?

Author: Yes, we already considered the holder binding for the PID.

Reviewer: We have to assume that is the Wallet Instance (Solution) that decides which key to use for DPoP

It's up to the wallet solution decide if the same key used for the wallet instance attestation should then be used also for DPoP

The credential issuer cannot refuse a valid DPoP on the basis of its preference to have or not have the same key of the wallet instance attestation.

This is the most important implementation consideration, before any security ones.

Then we may go for a "high" security profile (one of the most abused term of the last two years, since we still don't see any low and medium but just "high" everywhere, without any reference ...) using DPoP and using a brand new key for DPoP, assuming that the credential issuer will use the DPoP publick key for PID holder key binding.

we can support this, then we have to consider the implication of this.

this will costs to ask two distinct presentations. one for the PID and another for the wallet instance attestation, given that these are bound to two different keys.

I assume (please feel free to give your concerns every time and in particulat when I use the personal subject) that the wallet instance attestation is required to give the proof to the RP that the wallet instance is not revoked, and that it is still valid and secure enough to present a credentail of LoA high.

assuming then that the wallet instance attestation is a requirement also in the presentation phase, having different holder key binding an RP cannot request in a single presentation (even if it may try anyway) both PID and wallet instance attestation, but it has to distinguish the client authentication (wallet instance attestation) and the the user authentication (PID) and then any other extended attribute for any use-cases (type1, type2 ...).

even if we try to simplify the flow embedding as many stuffs in a single shot the problem of the multiple presentation is always along the road of the real world scenario. So, let's go for the multiple presentations anyway, it costs more but it guarranties more privacy and flexiblity in time

@TeamSog please take this assumption, since the RP request is in your hands :-) and feel free to ask questions and give whatever you want to say on this

Reviewer 4: > even if we try to simplify the flow embedding as many stuffs in a single shot the problem of the multiple presentation is always along the road of the real world scenario. So, let's go for the multiple presentations anyway, it costs more but it guarranties more privacy and flexiblity in time

@peppelinux does that mean we won't have presentations using data coming from multiple (Q)EAAs?

Author: This implies that if we have more than one (Q)EAA with the holder binding, each (Q)EAA must be presented separately. If we have multiple (Q)EAA whithout the holder binding (or with only one credential with the binding) they could be presented in a single shot.

Reviewer 4: Thanks. I think it's out of scope for the PID issuance, let's discuss it when defining the presentation flow in the RP part. 
I see unwanted complexity for both Wallet Instance and RP. Also, the more requests we make the more we are exposed to failures.

**Step 19:** The Wallet Instance sends a PID issuance request to the PID Provider credential endpoint. It contains the *access token*, the *DPoP proof*, the *credential type*, the *proof* (proof of possession of the key) and the *format*.

.. note::

    **PID Credential Schema and Status registration:**  The PID Provider MUST register all the PID credential related information for the later status verification and revocation. 

.. code-block::

    POST /credential HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.it

Reviewer: please, use example.org in non-normative examples

Author: done

    Authorization: DPoP Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU
    DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R
        1JEQSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiJlMWozVl9iS2ljOC1MQUVCIiwiaHRtIj
        oiR0VUIiwiaHR1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9yZXNvdXJjZS5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9wcm90ZWN0Z
        WRyZXNvdXJjZSIsImlhdCI6MTU2MjI2MjYxOCwiYXRoIjoiZlVIeU8ycjJaM0RaNTNF
        c05yV0JiMHhXWG9hTnk1OUlpS0NBcWtzbVFFbyJ9.2oW9RP35yRqzhrtNP86L-Ey71E
        OptxRimPPToA1plemAgR6pxHF8y6-yqyVnmcw6Fy1dqd-jfxSYoMxhAJpLjA
    
    credential_definition=%7B%22type%22:%5B%22eu.eudiw.pid.it%22%5D%7D
    &format=vc+sd-jwt
    &proof=%7B%22proof_type%22:%22...-ace0-9c5210e16c32%22%7D

A non-normative example of proof parameter is given below:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "proof_type": "jwt",
    "jwt": "eyJraWQiOiJkaWQ6ZXhhbXBsZTplYm …"
    }

Where the JWT looks like this:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "openid4vci-proof+jwt",
    "jwk": <…> 
    }
    .
    {
    "iss": "0b434530-e151-4c40-98b7-74c75a5ef760",

>     "aud": "https://pid.it",

Reviewer: please, use example.org in non-normative examples

Author: done

.. code-block::

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache
    
    {
    "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
    "credential" : "LUpixVCWJk0eOt4CXQe1NXK[...]WZwmhmn9OQp6YxX0a2L",
    "c_nonce": "fGFF7[...]UkhLa",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

PAR endpoint
------------

Request
^^^^^^^

The requests at the Pushed Authorization Request endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be HTTP POST requests with the following mandatory parameters in the HTTP request message body using the ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format.

.. _table_http_request_claim: 
.. list-table:: PAR http request parameters
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **response_type**
      - MUST be set to ``code``
      - TBD
    * - **client_id**

>       - MUST be set to the ``jwk`` value in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer: do you mean the thumbprint of the jwk?

Author: Yes, I will fix

Author: done

      - :rfc:`7636#section-4.2`.
    * - **code_challenge_method**
      - A method that was used to derive **code challenge**. MUST be set to ``S256`` 
      - :rfc:`7636#section-4.3`.
    * - **request**
      - It MUST be a signed JWT. The private key corresponding to the public one in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation MUST be used for signing the requet object.
      - TBD
    * - **client_assertion_type**
      - It MUST be set to ``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer``.
      - TBD
    * - **client_assertion**
      - It MUST be the Wallet Instance Attestation signed JWT.
      - TBD

The JWT Request Object has the following JOSE header parameters

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - It MUST be set to one of the supported value specified in Section [...]
      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.
    * - **kid**
      - Unique identifier of the JWK as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value
      - See :rfc:`7638#section_3`. 

.. note::
  The parameter **typ**, if omitted, assumes the implicit value **JWT**.

> The JWT payload is given by the following parameters

Reviewer: add `:` at the end

Author: done

    - *Wallet Solution*: It represents the entire product and service owned by a Wallet Provider, offered to all Users of that solution. A Wallet Solution can be certified as being EUDI-compliant by a Conformity Assessment Body (CAB).
    - *Wallet Instance*: the Wallet Solution is instantiated to Wallet Instance through installation and initialization on the User's device. it provides interfaces for User interaction with the Wallet Solution backend. 
    - *PID Provider*: It represents the issuer of eIDAS Person Identification Data (PID). It is composed of:

        - OIDC VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.
        - National eID component (OIDC Core or SAML2): It represents the component to authenticate the End-User with the National IdPs.

>     - National IdP: It represents preexisting identity systems based on SAML2 or OIDC, already in production in each Member State (for Italy SPID and CIE id authentication schemed notified eIDAS with *LoA* **High**).

Reviewer: SAML2 or OIDC
 
 I'm wondering if we should have at least a ref to OIDC tech refs that have unified spid and cie for editorial sake

Author: Done

    
.. _fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing:
.. figure:: ../../images/High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center

    PID Issuing - General architecture and high level flow

The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuing of a PID, in particular:

    0. **Wallet Instance Setup**: the first time the Wallet Instance is started a preliminary setup phase MUST be carried out. It consists of the release of a verifiable proof issued by the Attestation Service provided by the Wallet Provider that asserts the genuineness, the authenticity and the compliance with a trust framework of the Wallet Instance. The verifiable proof binds a public key corresponding to a local private key generated by the Wallet Instance. 

>     1. **Obtaining the trusted PID Provider**: the Wallet Instance queries the Trust Anchor to fetch the trusted PID Provider. 

Reviewer: may we have a quick example of a request to the listing endpoint with entity_type set to openid_credential_issuer?

    2. **Obtaining of PID Provider metadata**: the Wallet Instance fetches the Entity Statement of the PID Provider from the Trust Anchor and can establish the trust and obtain the Metadata that discloses the types of PIDs, their formats, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

>     3. **PID request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance and the public key is used to bind the PID

Reviewer: add a `.` ad the end of the phrase

Author: Done

    PID Issuing - Detailed flow

**Steps 1-4:** The User has selected a PID Provider, and the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata for the selected PID Provider.

.. note::

>     **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID Provider is part of Federation and then it can consume its Metadata.

Reviewer: let's say how -> Federation entity Discovery and the build of the federation trust chain related to the credential instance

> **Steps 5-6:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier and sends this along in a *pushed authorization request* using the OIDC request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the pushed authorization endpoint of the PID Provider. The Wallet Instance signs this request using its attested private key. We assume that a standard OAuth2 client authentication method should be involved as the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication can be based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the client_assertion parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify types of the credentials when requesting authorization for PID issuance.

Reviewer: specialized terms like `client_assertion` should be italic, bold or enclosed as code text

Author: Done

    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    
    response_type=code
    &client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &code_challenge=E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM
    &code_challenge_method=S256
    &request=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ew0KIC Jpc3MiOiAiczZCaGRSa3F0MyIsDQogImF1ZCI6ICJodHRwczovL3NlcnZlci5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsDQo gInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsDQogImNsaWVudF9pZCI6ICJzNkJoZFJrcXQz IiwNCiAicmVkaXJlY3RfdXJpIjogImh0dHBzOi8vY2xpZW50LmV4YW1...
    &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation
    &client_assertion=$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 

The JWT payload of PAR is given as the following:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "response_type":"code",
    "client_id":$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$,
    "state":"fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd",
    "code_challenge":"E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM",
    "code_challenge_method":"S256",
    "authorization_details":[
    {
        "type":"openid_credential",
        "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
        "credential_definition": {
            "type": ["eu.eudiw.pid.it"]
        }
    }
    ],

>     "redirect_uri":"eudiw://start.wallet.example.org",

Reviewer: eudiw or haip?

https://github.com/vcstuff/oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc/blob/main/draft-oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc.md#credential-offer

I've already suggested a different name since haip is not in my favourites, as you can read here:
https://github.com/vcstuff/oid4vc-haip-sd-jwt-vc/issues/14

    "client_assertion_type":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation",
    "client_assertion":$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 
    }

.. note::
    **Federation Check:** PID Provider needs to check that the Wallet Provider is part of the federation and in addition it MUST verify Wallet Instance Attestation validity by checking its signature and the validity of the claims inside it. 

**Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing this new authorization request and returns it to the Wallet Instance. 

.. code-block:: 

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store
    
    {
        "request_uri":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:bwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2",
        "expires_in": 60
    }

**Steps 8-9:** The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID Provider authorization endpoint.

.. code-block:: 

    GET /authorize?client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
        &request_uri=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Arequest_uri%3Abwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2 HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.it

Reviewer: pid.it -> pid.example.whatever

Author: Done

 

.. note::

   **User Authentication and Consent:** The PID Provider performs the User authentication based on the requirements of eIDAS LoA High and asks the User for consent for the PID issuance. 

**Steps 10-11:** The PID Provider sends an authorization code to the Wallet Instance. 

.. note::

    The Wallet Instance redirect URI is a universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
 
.. code-block:: 

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found

>     Location: eudiw://start.wallet.it?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd

Reviewer: even if it may appear weird, but I suggest "your suggestion" to have also "iss" here, as we agreed for CIE OIDC here
https://spid-cie-oidc-docs.vercel.app/authorization_endpoint.html#response

just to be sure that there might not be anyway to hijack the app locally to inject a fake response to drive the session to an adversary

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

.. _pid_issuing.rst:

PID Issuing
+++++++++++

The relevant entities and interfaces involved in the issuing flows are:

>     - *Wallet Provider*: It represents an organization (public or private) that is responsible for the release of an eIDAS-compliant EUDI Wallet solution. It also issues to the Wallet Instance a Wallet Attestation by means of an Attestation Service. The Wallet Attestation certifies the genuinity and authenticity of the Wallet Instance and its compliance with a trust framework (e.g., with respect to the relevant security and privacy requirements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - *Wallet Provider*: It represents an organization (public or private) that is responsible for the release of an eIDAS-compliant EUDI Wallet Solution. It also issues thes Wallet Instance Attestation to its Wallet Instances by means of an Attestation Service. The Wallet Attestation certifies the genuinity and authenticity of the Wallet Instance and its compliance with a Trust Framework in compliance to the security and privacy requirements.
```

    - *Wallet Solution*: It represents the entire product and service owned by a Wallet Provider, offered to all Users of that solution. A Wallet Solution can be certified as being EUDI-compliant by a Conformity Assessment Body (CAB).

>     - *Wallet Instance*: the Wallet Solution is instantiated to Wallet Instance through installation and initialization on the User's device. it provides interfaces for User interaction with the Wallet Solution backend. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - *Wallet Instance*: instance of a Wallet Solution, installed on User's device. It provides interfaces for User interaction with the Wallet Provider, PID and (Q)EAA Providers and Relying Parties.
```

    - *PID Provider*: It represents the issuer of eIDAS Person Identification Data (PID). It is composed of:

>         - OIDC VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - OpenID VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.
```

>         - National eID component (OIDC Core or SAML2): It represents the component to authenticate the End-User with the National IdPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - National eID Relying Party (OpenID Connect or SAML2): It represents the component to authenticate the End-User with the national Digital Identity Providers.
```

>     - National IdP: It represents preexisting identity systems based on SAML2 or OIDC, already in production in each Member State (for Italy SPID and CIE id authentication schemed notified eIDAS with *LoA* **High**, see `SPID/CIE OpenID Connect Specifications <https://italia.github.io/spid-cie-oidc-docs/en/>`_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - National IdP: It represents preexisting identity systems based on SAML2 or OpenID Connect, already in production in each Member State (for Italy SPID and CIE id authentication schemed notified eIDAS with *LoA* **High**, see `SPID/CIE OpenID Connect Specifications <https://italia.github.io/spid-cie-oidc-docs/en/>`_).
```

    
.. _fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing:
.. figure:: ../../images/High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing.svg
    :figwidth: 100%
    :align: center

    PID Issuing - General architecture and high level flow

The :numref:`fig_High-Level-Flow-EUDIW-PID-Issuing` shows a general architecture and highlights the main operations involved in the issuing of a PID, in particular:

    0. **Wallet Instance Setup**: the first time the Wallet Instance is started a preliminary setup phase MUST be carried out. It consists of the release of a verifiable proof issued by the Attestation Service provided by the Wallet Provider that asserts the genuineness, the authenticity and the compliance with a trust framework of the Wallet Instance. The verifiable proof binds a public key corresponding to a local private key generated by the Wallet Instance. 
    1. **Obtaining the trusted PID Provider**: the Wallet Instance queries the Trust Anchor to fetch the trusted PID Provider. 

>     2. **Obtaining of PID Provider metadata**: the Wallet Instance fetches the Entity Statement of the PID Provider from the Trust Anchor and can establish the trust and obtain the Metadata that discloses the types of PIDs, their formats, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. **Obtaining of PID Provider metadata**: the Wallet Instance establishes the trust to the PID Provider according to the Trust Model, obtaining the Metadata that discloses the formats of the PID, the algorithms supported, and any other parameter required for interoperability needs.
```

>     3. **PID request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance and the public key is used to bind the PID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. **PID request**: following the Authorization Code Flow in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ the Wallet Instance requests a PID to the PID Provider. A fresh key pairs is generated by the Wallet Instance, the public key is used by PID Provider for the key binding of the PID.
```

>     4. **End-user authentication**: the PID Provider authenticates the End-User using a traditional eIDAS high LoA SAML2/OIDC authentication acting as an IAM Proxy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. **End-user authentication**: the PID Provider authenticates the End-User with LoA High, acting as an IAM Proxy to the National eID system. 
```

>     5. **PID issuance**: finally, after the End-User authentication with LoA High and consent, and the check of the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider as the provider of a compliant Wallet Solution, the PID Provider responds with a PID, bound to key material as requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. **PID issuance**: once the User authentication with LoA High happens, the User gives their consent, the PID Provider checks the Wallet Instance by means of the Wallet Attestation and the Trust Chain related to the Wallet Provider. Finally, the PID Provider releases a PID bound to the key material held by the requesting Wallet instance.
```

The Wallet Instance Setup phase is described in Section [...]. In the following Section the steps from 1 to 5 are further expanded into more technical detailed steps. 

Detailed Flow
-------------

> The PID Issuing phase is based on the **Authorization Code Flow** with **Pushed Authorization Requests** (PAR) [:rfc:`9126`] and **PKCE** (Proof Key for Code Exchange, :rfc:`7636`) as recommended in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13. Section 3.4] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#section-3.4>`_. A *Wallet Initiated Flow* is considered and the User receives the PID directly in response to the Credential Request (*Immediate Flow*) on the same device as the device the Wallet Instance resides on (*Same-device*). 

Reviewer: WDYT to reqord this final sentece `A *Wallet Initiated Flow* is considered and the User receives the PID directly in response to the Credential Request (*Immediate Flow*) on the same device as the device the Wallet Instance resides on (*Same-device*). `

    PID Issuing - Detailed flow

**Steps 1-4:** The User has selected a PID Provider, and the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata for the selected PID Provider.

.. note::

    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID Provider is part of Federation and then it can consume its Metadata.

> **Steps 5-6:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier and sends this along in a *pushed authorization request* using the OIDC request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the pushed authorization endpoint of the PID Provider. The Wallet Instance signs this request using its attested private key. We assume that a standard OAuth2 client authentication method should be involved as the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication can be based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify types of the credentials when requesting authorization for PID issuance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 5-6:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier and sends this along in a *pushed authorization request* using the request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider. The Wallet Instance signs this request using its attested private key. A standard OAuth2 client authentication method must be involved, because the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint, in this flow. The client authentication can be based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID issuance.
```

The following is a non-normative example of the PAR.

.. code-block::

    POST /as/par HTTP/1.1
    Host: pid.it
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    
    response_type=code
    &client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &code_challenge=E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM
    &code_challenge_method=S256
    &request=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6ImsyYmRjIn0.ew0KIC Jpc3MiOiAiczZCaGRSa3F0MyIsDQogImF1ZCI6ICJodHRwczovL3NlcnZlci5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSIsDQo gInJlc3BvbnNlX3R5cGUiOiAiY29kZSBpZF90b2tlbiIsDQogImNsaWVudF9pZCI6ICJzNkJoZFJrcXQz IiwNCiAicmVkaXJlY3RfdXJpIjogImh0dHBzOi8vY2xpZW50LmV4YW1...
    &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation
    &client_assertion=$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 

The JWT payload of PAR is given as the following:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The JWS header of request object is represented below:

.. code-block:: JSON
  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "FifYx03bnosD8m6gYQIfNHNP9cM_Sam9Tc5nLloIIrc",
    "typ": "JWT"
  }

The JWS payload of the request object is represented below:
```

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "response_type":"code",
    "client_id":"$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$",
    "state":"fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd",
    "code_challenge":"E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM",
    "code_challenge_method":"S256",
    "authorization_details":[
    {
        "type":"openid_credential",
        "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
        "credential_definition": {
            "type": ["eu.eudiw.pid.it"]
        }
    }
    ],
    "redirect_uri":"eudiw://start.wallet.example.org",
    "client_assertion_type":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation",
    "client_assertion":"$WalletInstanceAttestation$"
    }

.. note::
    **Federation Check:** PID Provider needs to check that the Wallet Provider is part of the federation and in addition it MUST verify Wallet Instance Attestation validity by checking its signature and the validity of the claims inside it. 

> **Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing this new authorization request and returns it to the Wallet Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing this new authorization request to be returned to the Wallet Instance. 
```

.. code-block:: 

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store
    
    {
        "request_uri":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:bwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2",
        "expires_in": 60
    }

**Steps 8-9:** The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID Provider authorization endpoint.

.. code-block:: 

    GET /authorize?client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
        &request_uri=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Arequest_uri%3Abwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2 HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
```

**Steps 10-11:** The PID Provider sends an authorization code to the Wallet Instance. 

.. note::

    The Wallet Instance redirect URI is a universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
 
.. code-block:: 

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Location: eudiw://start.wallet.example.org?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd
 
**Steps 12-13:** The Wallet Instance creates a key for DPoP and a fresh DPoP proof for the token request to the PID Provider. DPoP provides a way to bind the access token to a certain sender (Wallet Instance) `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint of PID Provider as the attacker needs to present a valid DPoP proof.

**Step 14:** The Wallet Instance sends a token request to the PID Provider's token endpoint using the authorization *code*, *code_verifier* and *DPoP proof*, and *private_key_jwt*.

.. code-block::

    POST /token HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
```

>     Host: pid.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
```

    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE
        QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj
        oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia
        WF0IjoxNTYyMjYyNjE2fQ.2-GxA6T8lP4vfrg8v-FdWP0A0zdrj8igiMLvqRMUvwnQg
        4PtFLbdLXiOSsX0x7NVY-FNyJK70nfbV37xRZT3Lg

    client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &grant_type=authorization_code
    &code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
    &redirect_uri=eudiw://start.wallet.example.org
    &code_verifier=dBjftJeZ4CVP-mB92K27uhbUJU1p1r_wW1gFWFOEjXk
    &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer

>     &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiI

Reviewer: this assumes that the PID Provider has previously registered the Wallet Instance as a client. Does the public key submitted during the authz request be used to verify the private_key_jwt?

I assume yes, if confirmed please explain this

**Step 15:** The PID Provider validates the request and if it is successful, it issues an *access token* (bound to the DPoP key) and a fresh *c_nonce*.  

.. code-block::

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-store
    
    {
    "access_token": "Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU",
    "token_type": "DPoP",
    "expires_in": 2677,
    "c_nonce": "tZign[...]snFbp",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

> **Steps 16-18:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh key pair the new credential shall be bound to.  Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID credential issuance endpoint.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 16-18:** The Wallet Instance creates a new key pair to which the new credential shall be bound to. Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID credential issuance endpoint.  
```

**Step 19:** The Wallet Instance sends a PID issuance request to the PID Provider credential endpoint. It contains the *access token*, the *DPoP proof*, the *credential type*, the *proof* (proof of possession of the key) and the *format*.

.. note::

    **PID Credential Schema and Status registration:**  The PID Provider MUST register all the PID credential related information for the later status verification and revocation. 

.. code-block::

    POST /credential HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
```

    DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R
        1JEQSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiJlMWozVl9iS2ljOC1MQUVCIiwiaHRtIj
        oiR0VUIiwiaHR1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9yZXNvdXJjZS5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9wcm90ZWN0Z
        WRyZXNvdXJjZSIsImlhdCI6MTU2MjI2MjYxOCwiYXRoIjoiZlVIeU8ycjJaM0RaNTNF
        c05yV0JiMHhXWG9hTnk1OUlpS0NBcWtzbVFFbyJ9.2oW9RP35yRqzhrtNP86L-Ey71E
        OptxRimPPToA1plemAgR6pxHF8y6-yqyVnmcw6Fy1dqd-jfxSYoMxhAJpLjA
    
    credential_definition=%7B%22type%22:%5B%22eu.eudiw.pid.it%22%5D%7D
    &format=vc+sd-jwt
    &proof=%7B%22proof_type%22:%22...-ace0-9c5210e16c32%22%7D

A non-normative example of proof parameter is given below:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "proof_type": "jwt",
    "jwt": "eyJraWQiOiJkaWQ6ZXhhbXBsZTplYm …"
    }

Where the JWT looks like this:

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "openid4vci-proof+jwt",
    "kid": "dB67gL7ck3TFiIAf7N6_7SHvqk0MDYMEQcoGGlkUAAw"
  }

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "iss": "0b434530-e151-4c40-98b7-74c75a5ef760",

>     "aud": "https://pid.example.org",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "aud": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
```

    "iat": "1504699136",
    "nonce": "tZign...snFbp"
    }

**Steps 20-22:** The PID Provider checks the *DPoP proof* and whether the *access token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID. It also checks the proof of possession for the key material the new credential shall be bound to. If all checks succeed, the PID Provider creates a new credential bound to the key material and sends it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the PID integrity and authenticity checks and if it is successful can proceed with secure storage of the PID credential. 

.. code-block::

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-store

>     Pragma: no-cache

Reviewer: are these two intentional?

    
    {
    "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
    "credential" : "LUpixVCWJk0eOt4CXQe1NXK[...]WZwmhmn9OQp6YxX0a2L",
    "c_nonce": "fGFF7[...]UkhLa",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

PAR endpoint
------------

Request
^^^^^^^

> The requests at the Pushed Authorization Request endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be HTTP POST requests with the following mandatory parameters in the HTTP request message body using the ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requests to the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be HTTP with method POST, with the following mandatory parameters in the HTTP request message body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format.
```

.. _table_http_request_claim: 
.. list-table:: PAR http request parameters
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **response_type**
      - MUST be set to ``code``

>       - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
```

    * - **client_id**
      - MUST be set to the thumbprint of the ``jwk`` value in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation

>       - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
```

    * - **code_challenge**
      - A challenge derived from the **code verifier** that is sent in the authorization request
      - :rfc:`7636#section-4.2`.
    * - **code_challenge_method**

>       - A method that was used to derive **code challenge**. MUST be set to ``S256`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - A method that was used to derive **code challenge**. It MUST be set to ``S256`` 
```

      - :rfc:`7636#section-4.3`.
    * - **request**
      - It MUST be a signed JWT. The private key corresponding to the public one in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation MUST be used for signing the request object.

>       - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `OIDC-CORE`_
```

    * - **client_assertion_type**
      - It MUST be set to ``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation``.

>       - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **client_assertion**
      - It MUST be the Wallet Instance Attestation signed JWT.

>       - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

> The JWT Request Object has the following JOSE header parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JWT Request Object has the following JOSE header parameters:
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**

>       - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`  and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>` and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
```

      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.
    * - **kid**
      - Unique identifier of the JWK as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value

>       - See :rfc:`7638#section_3`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - :rfc:`7638#section_3`. 
```

The Authorization request passes through the Browser of the Wallet Instance and both **HTTP POST** and **GET** method MAY be used. With the method **POST** the parameters MUST be sent using the *Form Serialization*. With the method **GET** the parameters MUST be sent using the *Query String Serialization*. For more details see `OpenID.Core#Serializations <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#Serializations>`_.

The mandatory parameters in the HTTP authentication request are specified in the following table.

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **client_id**
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **request_uri**
      - It MUST be set to the same value as obtained by PAR Response. See :ref:`Table of the HTTP PAR Response parameters <table_http_response_claim>`
      - [:rfc:`9126`]

Response
^^^^^^^^
An Authentication response is returned by the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider at the end of the authentication flow. 

> If the authentication is successful the PID Provider redirects the user by adding the following parameters required as query parameters to the *redirect_uri* which MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the authentication is successful the PID Provider redirects the User by adding the following parameters required as query parameters to the *redirect_uri* which MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **code**
      - Unique *Authorization Code* that the client can pass to the Token Endpoint

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Unique *Authorization Code* that the client submits to the Token Endpoint
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **state**
      - The client MUST check the correspondence with the state value in the request object. It is defined as in the :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`
      - [TBD] 

Token endpoint
--------------

Request
^^^^^^^

> The request at the Token endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be an HTTP POST request in the HTTP request message body using the ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing parameters in the table below (all mandatory unless otherwise specified).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request to the Token endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be an HTTP request with method  POST, having a message in its body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing the parameters in the table below.
```

> The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP field of the Header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of DPoP document `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint of PID Provider as the attacker needs to present a. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response per Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of the DPoP specifications `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response, according to Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **client_id**
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **grant_type**
      - It MUST be set to “authorization_code”

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **code**
      - Authorization code returned in the Authentication Response.

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **redirect_uri**
      - It MUST be set as in the request object :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **code_verifier**
      - Verification code of the **code_challenge**

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636>`_
```

    * - **client_assertion_type**
      - It MUST be set to ``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer``.

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
```

    * - **client_assertion**
      - JWT signed with the Wallet Instance's private key containing the following parameters:
      
        - **iss**: This MUST contain the client_id.

>         - **sub**: This MUST contain the iss. 

Reviewer: just say that they must be equal pointing to ...

>         - **aud**: URL of the PID Token Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **aud**: URL of the PID Provider Token Endpoint.
```

        - **iat**: UNIX Timestamp with the time of the JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate as indicated in RFC 7519.
        - **exp**: UNIX Timestamp with the expiry time of the JWT, coded as NumericDate as indicated in RFC 7519.

>         - **jti**: Unique Identifier uuid4 for this authentication request, generated by the client. E.g., it can be in uuid4 format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **jti**: Unique Identifier uuid4 for this authentication request, generated by the client. E.g., uuid4 format.
```

      - [TBD]

A **DPoP proof** is included in an HTTP request using ``DPoP`` as a request header claim containing a DPoP signed JWT.

The JOSE header of a **DPoP JWT** MUST contain at least the following parameters:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **typ** 
      - It MUST be equal to ``dpop+jwt``. 
      - [:rfc:`7515`] and [:rfc:`8725`. Section 3.11].
    * - **alg** 
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`  and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
      - [:rfc:`7515`]
    * - **jwk** 

>       - representing the public key chosen by the client, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [RFC7517] format, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515]. MUST NOT contain a private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - representing the public key chosen by the client, in JSON Web Key (JWK) [RFC7517] format, as defined in Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7515]. It MUST NOT contain a private key.
```

      - [:rfc:`7517`] and [:rfc:`7515`]

The payload of a **DPoP proof** MUST contain at least the following claims:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **jti**
      - Unique identifier for the DPoP proof JWT. The value MUST be assigned in a *UUID v4* string format according to [:rfc:`4122`].
      - [:rfc:`7519`. Section 4.1.7].
    * - **htm**
      - The value of the HTTP method of the request to which the JWT is attached.
      - [:rfc:`9110`. Section 9.1].
    * - **htu**
      - The HTTP target URI, without query and fragment parts, of the request to which the JWT is attached.
      - [:rfc:`9110`. Section 7.1].
    * - **iat**
      - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate as indicated in :rfc:`7519`. 
      - [:rfc:`7519`. Section 4.1.6].

Response
^^^^^^^^

> The response to Token endpoint MUST contain the following mandatory claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token endpoint response MUST contain the following mandatory claims.
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **access_token**
      - The *DPoP-bound Access Token*, in signed JWT format, allows accessing the Credential Endpoint for obtaining the PID.

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
```

    * - **token_type**
      - Type of *Access Token* returned. It MUST be equal to ``DPoP``.

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
```

    * - **expires_in**
      - Expiry time of the *Access Token* in seconds.

>       - [TBD]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
```

Access Token
^^^^^^^^^^^^

A DPoP-bound Access Token is provided by the PID Provider token endpoint as a result of a successful token request. The Access Token is represented as JWT according to [:rfc:`7519`]. The Access Token MUST have at least the following mandatory claims and it MUST be bound to the public key that is provided by the DPoP proof. This binding can be accomplished based on the methodology defined in Section 6 of `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_.

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **iss** 
    - It MUST be an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID Provider. The client MUST verify that this value matches the called PID Provider.
    - `[RFC7519, Section 4.1.1] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7519>`_.
  * - **sub** 
    - It identifies the principal that is the subject of the JWT. It MUST be of type *pairwise*. 
    - [:rfc:`7519`] and [`OpenID.Core#SubjectIDTypes <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#SubjectIDTypes>`_]
  * - **client_id** 
    - It MUST contain a HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the RP. 

>     - [TBD]

Reviewer: I'd like to ask the resolution of all these [TBD]

    - [TBD]
  * - **jti** 
    - It MUST be a String in *uuid4* format. Unique Token ID identifier that the RP MAY use to prevent reuse by rejecting the Token ID if already processed.
    - [TBD]
  * - **nonce** 
    - It MUST be a random string of at least 32 alphanumeric characters. The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a **c_nonce** provided by the PID Provider.
    - [`OpenID.Core#AuthRequest <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AuthRequest>`_]
  * - jkt
    - JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint Confirmation Method. The value of the jkt member MUST be the base64url encoding (as defined in [RFC7515]) of the JWK SHA-256 Thumbprint of the DPoP public key (in JWK format) to which the access token is bound.
    - [`DPoP-draft16 <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Section 6.1] and [:rfc:`7638`]

Credential endpoint
-------------------

Request
^^^^^^^

A Wallet Instance makes a PID Request to the PID Provider Credential endpoint by sending the following mandatory parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the application/json media type.

> The Credential endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP field of the Header based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Credential endpoint returns an error response per Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with `invalid_dpop_proof` as the value of the error parameter.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Credential endpoint returns an error response per Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with `invalid_dpop_proof` as the value of the error parameter.  
```

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **credential_definition**
    - JSON object containing the detailed description of the credential type. It MUST have at least the **type** sub claims which is a JSON array containing the type values the Wallet shall request in the subsequent Credential Request. It MUST be `eu.eudiw.pid.it`
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **format** 
    - Format of the Credential to be issued. This MUST be `vc+sd-jwt`.
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **proof**
    - JSON object containing proof of possession of the key material the issued Credential shall be bound to. The proof object MUST contain the following mandatory claims:

      - **proof_type**: JSON string denoting the proof type. It MUST be `jwt`.
      - **jwt**: the JWT used as proof of possession. 
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_

.. note::

>   If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the credential request MUST contain the doctype claim which is a JSON string identifying the PID type according to `[ISO.18013-5] <https://www.iso.org/standard/69084.html>`_ . See Appendix E.2. of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the credential request MUST contain the doctype claim which is a JSON string identifying the PID type according to `EIDAS-ARF`_ . See Appendix E.2. of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ for more details.
```
Consider that the PID rulebook is integrated in the ARF

The JWT proof type MUST contain the following parameters for the JOSE header and the JWT body:

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **JOSE Header**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **alg**

>     - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`  and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>` and MUST NOT be ``none`` or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
```

    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **iat**
    - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate as indicated in :rfc:`7519`. 
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_, [:rfc:`7519`. Section 4.1.6].
  * - **nonce**
    - The value type of this claim MUST be a string, where the value is a **c_nonce** provided by the PID Provider in the Token response.
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_

Response
^^^^^^^^
[TBD]

Credential Response to the Wallet Instance MUST be sent using `application/json` media type. The response MUST contain the following mandatory claims: 

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **format**
    - Format of the Credential to be issued. This MUST be `vc+sd-jwt`.
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **credential**

>     - Contains the issued PID. It MUST be an SD-JWT JSON Object (see Section :ref:`PID Data Model <pid_data_model.rst>`)    

Reviewer: what to do when you'll have to issues both SD-JWT and MDOC CBOR ?

    - Appendix E in `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **c_nonce**
    - JSON string containing a nonce to be used to create a *proof of possession* of key material when requesting a further credential or for renewal credential. 
    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
  * - **c_nonce_expires_in**

>     - JSON integer denoting the lifetime in seconds of the **c_nonce**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - JSON integer corresponding to the **c_nonce** lifetime in seconds.
```

    - `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_

.. note::

>   If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the **credential** value MUST be a JSON string according to Appendix E of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the **format** value is `mso_mdoc`, the **credential** value MUST be a base64url-encoded JSON string according to Appendix E of `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_.
```

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

.. _pid_issuing.rst:

PID Issuing
+++++++++++

The relevant entities and interfaces involved in the issuing flows are:

    - *Wallet Provider*: It represents an organization (public or private) that is responsible for the release of an eIDAS-compliant EUDI Wallet Solution. It also issues thes Wallet Instance Attestation to its Wallet Instances by means of an Attestation Service. The Wallet Attestation certifies the genuinity and authenticity of the Wallet Instance and its compliance with a Trust Framework in compliance to the security and privacy requirements.

>     - *Wallet Solution*: It represents the entire product and service owned by a Wallet Provider, offered to all Users of that solution. A Wallet Solution can be certified as being EUDI-compliant by a Conformity Assessment Body (CAB).
>     - *Wallet Instance*: instance of a Wallet Solution, installed on User's device. It provides interfaces for User interaction with the Wallet Provider, PID and (Q)EAA Providers and Relying Parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - *Wallet Solution*: It represents the entire product and service owned by a Wallet Provider, offered to all Users of that solution. A Wallet Solution must be certified as being EUDI-compliant by a Conformity Assessment Body (CAB).
    - *Wallet Instance*: instance of a Wallet Solution, installed on User's device. It provides interfaces for User interaction with the Wallet Provider, Relying Parties, PID and (Q)EAA Providers.
```

    - *PID Provider*: It represents the issuer of eIDAS Person Identification Data (PID). It is composed of:

>         - OpenID VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - OpenID4VCI Component: based on the “OpenID for Verifiable Credential Issuance” specification  `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_ to release PID credentials.
```

Reviewer: if it is a component it has a proper name

    PID Issuing - Detailed flow

**Steps 1-4:** The User has selected a PID Provider, and the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata for the selected PID Provider.

.. note::

    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID Provider is part of Federation and then it can consume its Metadata. In the following a non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID Provider

>     .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: http
```

    
      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/entity-statement+jwt

      {

        "alg": "RS256",
        "kid": "FANFS3YnC9tjiCaivhWLVUJ3AxwGGz_98uRFaqMEEs",
        "typ": "entity-statement+jwt"

      }

>       .{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .
      {
```

        "exp": "1649610249",
        "iat": "1649437449",
        "iss": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
        "sub": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
        "jwks": {
          "keys": [{
            "kty": "RSA",
            "use": "sig",
            "n": "1Ta-sE …",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "kid": "FANFS3YnC9tjiCaivhWLVUJ3AxwGGz_98uRFaqMEEs"
          }]
        },
        "metadata": {
          "openid_credential_issuer": {
            "credential_issuer": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
            "authorization_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/connect/authorize",
            "token_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/connect/token",
            "pushed_authorization_request_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/connect/par",

>             "dpop_signing_alg_values_supported": ["RS256", "RS512", "RSA-OAEP", "...", "ES256", "ES512"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "dpop_signing_alg_values_supported": ["RS256", "RS512", "ES256", "ES512"],
```

is RSA-OAEP intended for encryption only?

            "credential_endpoint": "https://pid-provider.example.org/credential",
            "credentials_supported": {
              "eu.eudiw.pid.it": {
                "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
                "cryptographic_binding_methods_supported": ["jwk"],

>                 "cryptographic_suites_supported": ["RS256", "RS512", "RSA-OAEP", "...", "ES256", "ES512"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "cryptographic_suites_supported": ["RS256", "RS512", "ES256", "ES512"],
```

                "display": [{
                    "name": "PID Provider Italiano di esempio",
                    "locale": "it-IT",
                    "logo": {
                      "url": "https://pid-provider example.org/public/logo.svg",
                      "alt_text": "logo di questo PID Provider"
                    },
                    "background_color": "#12107c",
                    "text_color": "#FFFFFF"
                  },
                  {
                    "name": "Example Italian PID Provider",
                    "locale": "en-US",
                    "logo": {
                      "url": "https://pid-provider.example.org/public/logo.svg",

>                       "alt_text": "a logo of this PID Provider"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                      "alt_text": "The logo of this PID Provider"
```

                        },
                        {
                          "name": "Identificativo univoco",
                          "locale": "it-IT"
                        }
                      ]
                    },
                    "tax_id_number": {
                      "mandatory": true,
                      "display": [{
                          "name": "Tax Id Number",
                          "locale": "en-US"
                        },
                        {
                          "name": "Codice Fiscale",
                          "locale": "it-IT"
                        }
                      ]
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          },

          "federation_entity": {
            "organization_name": "Pid Provider Organization Example",
            "homepage_uri": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
            "policy_uri": "https://pid-provider.example.org/privacy_policy",
            "tos_uri": "https://pid-provider.example.org/info_policy",
            "logo_uri": "https://pid-provider.example.org/logo.svg"
          },

          "openid_relying_party": {

>             <This is the metadata of the PID Provider acting as a Relying Party in the national digital identity framework (CIE/SPID)>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <This is the metadata of the PID Provider acting as a Relying Party in the national digital identity framework (CIE/SPID). See spid-cie-oidc-docs for details.>
```

          }
        }
      }         

> **Steps 5-6:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier and sends this along in a *pushed authorization request* using the request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider. The Wallet Instance signs this request using its attested private key. A standard OAuth2 client authentication method must be involved, because the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint, in this flow. The client authentication can be based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID issuance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 5-6:** The Wallet Instance creates a fresh PKCE code verifier that sends in a *pushed authorization request*, using the request parameter (see :rfc:`9126` Section 3) to the PID Provider authorization endpoint. The Wallet Instance signs its request using its attested private key. A standard OAuth2 client authentication method must be involved, since in this flow the pushed authorization endpoint is a protected endpoint. The client authentication can be based on the model defined in [:rfc:`7521`] using the Wallet Instance Attestation JWS inside the **client_assertion** parameter. The authorization_details [RAR :rfc:`9396`] parameter is extended to allow Wallet Instance to specify types of the credentials when requesting authorization for the PID issuance.
```

> The following is a non-normative example of the PAR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of the PAR.
```

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    POST /as/par HTTP/1.1

>     Host: pid.it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
```

    &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation
    &client_assertion=$WalletInstanceAttestation$ 

The JWS header of request object is represented below:

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "FifYx03bnosD8m6gYQIfNHNP9cM_Sam9Tc5nLloIIrc",
  }

The JWS payload of the request object is represented below:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "response_type":"code",
    "client_id":"$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$",
    "state":"fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd",
    "code_challenge":"E9Melhoa2OwvFrEMTJguCHaoeK1t8URWbuGJSstw-cM",
    "code_challenge_method":"S256",
    "authorization_details":[
    {
        "type":"openid_credential",
        "format": "vc+sd-jwt",
        "credential_definition": {
            "type": ["eu.eudiw.pid.it"]
        }
    }
    ],
    "redirect_uri":"eudiw://start.wallet.example.org",
    "client_assertion_type":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation",

**Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing this new authorization request to be returned to the Wallet Instance. 
    }

.. note::

>     **Federation Check:** PID Provider needs to check that the Wallet Provider is part of the federation and in addition it MUST verify Wallet Instance Attestation validity by checking its signature and the validity of the claims inside it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Federation Check:** PID Provider MUST check that the Wallet Provider is part of the federation and in addition it MUST verify Wallet Instance Attestation validity by checking its signature and the claims inside it. 
```

> **Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing this new authorization request and returns it to the Wallet Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 7:** The PID Provider creates a new request URI representing a new authorization request and returns it to the Wallet Instance. A non-normative example of the authorization request is represented below:
```

> .. code-block:: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Content-Type: application/json

>     Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    
    {
        "request_uri":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:bwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2",
        "expires_in": 60
    }

>     Host: pid-provider.example.org

Reviewer: please bring this up, and also is Cache-Control required in this request? If not please remove it.

>     Host: pid-provider.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     Host: pid-provider.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
    {
        "request_uri":"urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:bwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2",
        "expires_in": 60
    }
    
```

**Steps 8-9:** The Wallet Instance sends an authorization request to the PID Provider authorization endpoint.

> .. code-block:: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    GET /authorize?client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
        &request_uri=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Arequest_uri%3Abwc4JK-ESC0w8acc191e-Y1LTC2 HTTP/1.1
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
 

.. note::

   **User Authentication and Consent:** The PID Provider performs the User authentication based on the requirements of eIDAS LoA High and asks the User for consent for the PID issuance. 

**Steps 10-11:** The PID Provider sends an authorization code to the Wallet Instance. 

.. note::

    The Wallet Instance redirect URI is a universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
 

> .. code-block:: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

>     HTTP/1.1 302 Found
>     Location: eudiw://start.wallet.example.org?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd&iss=https%3A%2F%2Fpid-provider.example.org
>  
>     Host: pid-provider.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Location: eudiw://start.wallet.example.org?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA&state=fyZiOL9Lf2CeKuNT2JzxiLRDink0uPcd&iss=https%3A%2F%2Fpid-provider.example.org

```

**Step 14:** The Wallet Instance sends a token request to the PID Provider's token endpoint using the authorization *code*, *code_verifier* and *DPoP proof*, and *private_key_jwt*.

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    POST /token HTTP/1.1
    Host: pid-provider.example.org
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik
        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R1JE
        QSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiItQndDM0VTYzZhY2MybFRjIiwiaHRtIj
        oiUE9TVCIsImh0dSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc2VydmVyLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3Rva2VuIiwia
        WF0IjoxNTYyMjYyNjE2fQ.2-GxA6T8lP4vfrg8v-FdWP0A0zdrj8igiMLvqRMUvwnQg
        4PtFLbdLXiOSsX0x7NVY-FNyJK70nfbV37xRZT3Lg

    client_id=$thumprint-of-the-jwk-in-the-cnf-wallet-attestation$
    &grant_type=authorization_code
    &code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
    &redirect_uri=eudiw://start.wallet.example.org
    &code_verifier=dBjftJeZ4CVP-mB92K27uhbUJU1p1r_wW1gFWFOEjXk
    &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer
    &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiI

**Step 15:** The PID Provider validates the request and if it is successful, it issues an *access token* (bound to the DPoP key) and a fresh *c_nonce*.  

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json

>     Cache-Control: no-store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    
    {
    "access_token": "Kz~8mXK1EalYznwH-LC-1fBAo.4Ljp~zsPE_NeO.gxU",
    "token_type": "DPoP",
    "expires_in": 2677,
    "c_nonce": "tZign[...]snFbp",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

**Steps 16-18:** The Wallet Instance creates a new key pair to which the new credential shall be bound. Then, it creates a proof of possession with the new key and the *c_nonce* obtained in **Step 15** and it creates a DPoP proof for the request to the PID credential issuance endpoint.  

**Step 19:** The Wallet Instance sends a PID issuance request to the PID Provider credential endpoint. It contains the *access token*, the *DPoP proof*, the *credential type*, the *proof* (proof of possession of the key) and the *format*.

>     Host: pid-provider.example.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     **PID Credential Schema and Status registration:**  The PID Provider MUST register all the PID credential related information for the later status verification and revocation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    **PID Credential Schema and Status registration:**  The PID Provider MUST register all the issued PIDs for their later revocation, if needed.
```

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

        VDIiwieCI6Imw4dEZyaHgtMzR0VjNoUklDUkRZOXpDa0RscEJoRjQyVVFVZldWQVdCR
        nMiLCJ5IjoiOVZFNGpmX09rX282NHpiVFRsY3VOSmFqSG10NnY5VERWclUwQ2R2R
        1JEQSIsImNydiI6IlAtMjU2In19.eyJqdGkiOiJlMWozVl9iS2ljOC1MQUVCIiwiaHRtIj
        oiR0VUIiwiaHR1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9yZXNvdXJjZS5leGFtcGxlLm9yZy9wcm90ZWN0Z
        WRyZXNvdXJjZSIsImlhdCI6MTU2MjI2MjYxOCwiYXRoIjoiZlVIeU8ycjJaM0RaNTNF
        c05yV0JiMHhXWG9hTnk1OUlpS0NBcWtzbVFFbyJ9.2oW9RP35yRqzhrtNP86L-Ey71E
        OptxRimPPToA1plemAgR6pxHF8y6-yqyVnmcw6Fy1dqd-jfxSYoMxhAJpLjA
    
    credential_definition=%7B%22type%22:%5B%22eu.eudiw.pid.it%22%5D%7D
    &format=vc+sd-jwt
    &proof=%7B%22proof_type%22:%22...-ace0-9c5210e16c32%22%7D

A non-normative example of proof parameter is given below:

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "proof_type": "jwt",
    "jwt": "eyJraWQiOiJkaWQ6ZXhhbXBsZTplYm …"
    }

Where the JWT looks like this:

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "typ": "openid4vci-proof+jwt",
    "kid": "dB67gL7ck3TFiIAf7N6_7SHvqk0MDYMEQcoGGlkUAAw"
  }

.. code-block:: JSON

    {
    "iss": "0b434530-e151-4c40-98b7-74c75a5ef760",
    "aud": "https://pid-provider.example.org",
    "iat": "1504699136",

>     "nonce": "tZign...snFbp"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "iat": 1504699136,
    "nonce": "tZign...snFbp"
```

    }

**Steps 20-22:** The PID Provider checks the *DPoP proof* and whether the *access token* is valid and suitable for the requested PID. It also checks the proof of possession for the key material the new credential shall be bound to. If all checks succeed, the PID Provider creates a new credential bound to the key material and sends it to the Wallet Instance. The Wallet Instance MUST perform the PID integrity and authenticity checks and if it is successful can proceed with secure storage of the PID credential. 

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: http
```

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json

>     Cache-Control: no-store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     Pragma: no-cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    
    {
    "format": "vc+sd-jwt"
    "credential" : "LUpixVCWJk0eOt4CXQe1NXK[...]WZwmhmn9OQp6YxX0a2L",
    "c_nonce": "fGFF7[...]UkhLa",
    "c_nonce_expires_in": 86400
    }

PAR endpoint
------------

Request
^^^^^^^

> The requests to the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be HTTP with method POST, with the following mandatory parameters in the HTTP request message body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requests to the PID Provider authorization endpoint MUST be HTTP with method POST, with the following mandatory parameters in the HTTP request message body, encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format.
```

.. _table_http_request_claim: 
.. list-table:: PAR http request parameters
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **response_type**

>       - MUST be set to ``code``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - MUST be set to ``code``.
```

      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
    * - **client_id**

>       - MUST be set to the thumbprint of the ``jwk`` value in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - MUST be set to the thumbprint of the ``jwk`` value in the ``cnf`` parameter inside the Wallet Instance Attestation.
```

      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
    * - **code_challenge**
      - A challenge derived from the **code verifier** that is sent in the authorization request
      - :rfc:`7636#section-4.2`.
    * - **code_challenge_method**

>       - A method that was used to derive **code challenge**. It MUST be set to ``S256`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - A method that was used to derive **code challenge**. It MUST be set to ``S256``.
```

      - `OpenID Connect Core. Section 6 <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#JWTRequests>`_
    * - **client_assertion_type**
      - It MUST be set to ``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation``.
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **client_assertion**
      - It MUST be the Wallet Instance Attestation signed JWT.
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_

The JWT Request Object has the following JOSE header parameters:

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>` and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.
    * - **kid**

>       - Unique identifier of the JWK as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Unique identifier of the JWK as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value.
```

      - :rfc:`7638#section_3`. 

.. note::
  The parameter **typ**, if omitted, assumes the implicit value **JWT**.

The JWT payload is given by the following parameters:

.. _table_jwt_request:
.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **response_type**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **client_id**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **state**
      - Unique session identifier at the client side. This value will be returned to the client in the response, at the end of the authentication. It MUST be a random string with at least 32 alphanumeric characters.
      - See `OpenID.Core#AuthRequest <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AuthRequest>`_.
    * - **code_challenge**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **code_challenge_method**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **authorization_details**
      - JSON Object. It MUST include the following claims:
            
            - **type**: it MUST be set to ``openid_credential``
            - **format**: it MUST be set to ``vc+sd-jwt``,

>             - **credential_definition**: JSON Object. It MUST have the **type** claim which MUST be set to ``eu.eudiw.pid.it``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - **type**: it MUST be set to ``openid_credential``;
            - **format**: it MUST be set to ``vc+sd-jwt``;
            - **credential_definition**: JSON Object. It MUST have the **type** claim which MUST be set to ``eu.eudiw.pid.it``.
```

      - See [RAR :rfc:`9396`] and `[OIDC4VCI. Draft 13] <https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html>`_
    * - **redirect_uri**
      -  Redirection URI to which the response will be sent. It MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.
      - See `OpenID.Core#AuthRequest <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AuthRequest>`_
    * - **client_assertion_type**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **client_assertion**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - [:rfc:`9126`]
    * - **expires_in**
      - A JSON number that represents the lifetime of the request URI in seconds as a positive integer.
      - [:rfc:`9126`]

Authorization endpoint
----------------------

Request
^^^^^^^

The Authorization request passes through the Browser of the Wallet Instance and both **HTTP POST** and **GET** method MAY be used. With the method **POST** the parameters MUST be sent using the *Form Serialization*. With the method **GET** the parameters MUST be sent using the *Query String Serialization*. For more details see `OpenID.Core#Serializations <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#Serializations>`_.

The mandatory parameters in the HTTP authentication request are specified in the following table.

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **client_id**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **request_uri**

>       - It MUST be set to the same value as obtained by PAR Response. See :ref:`Table of the HTTP PAR Response parameters <table_http_response_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set to the same value as obtained by PAR Response. See :ref:`Table of the HTTP PAR Response parameters <table_http_response_claim>`.
```

      - [:rfc:`9126`]

Response
^^^^^^^^
An Authentication response is returned by the authorization endpoint of the PID Provider at the end of the authentication flow. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authentication response is returned by the PID Provider authorization endpoint at the end of the authentication flow. 

```

If the authentication is successful the PID Provider redirects the User by adding the following parameters required as query parameters to the *redirect_uri* which MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter will resolve it and pass the response to the Wallet Instance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the authentication is successful the PID Provider redirects the User by adding the following query parameters as required to the *redirect_uri*. The redirect URI MUST be an universal or app link registered with the local operating system, so this latter is able to resolve its value and delegates the Wallet Instance for the processing.

```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **code**

>       - Unique *Authorization Code* that the client submits to the Token Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Unique *Authorization Code* that the client submits to the Token Endpoint.
```

      - [:rfc:`6749#section-4.1.2`], `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **state**

>       - The client MUST check the correspondence with the state value in the request object. It is defined as in the :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - The client MUST check the correspondence with the state value in the request object. It is defined as in the :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`.
```

      - [:rfc:`6749#section-4.1.2`],
    * - **iss**
      - Unique identifier of the PID PRovider who created the Authentication Response. The Wallet Instance MUST validate this parameter.
      - `OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Issuer Identifier in Authorization Response <https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-meyerzuselhausen-oauth-iss-auth-resp-02.html>`_, `[RFC7519, Section 4.1.1] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7519>`_

Token endpoint
--------------

Request
^^^^^^^

The request to the Token endpoint of the PID Provider MUST be an HTTP request with method  POST, having a message in its body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing the mandatory parameters in the table below.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request to the PID Provider Token endpoint  MUST be an HTTP request with method POST, where its body message is encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded`` format. The Wallet Instance sends the Token endpoint request with *private_key_jwt* authentication and a *DPoP proof* containing the mandatory parameters, defined in the table below.

```

> The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of the DPoP specifications `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, it mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response, according to Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token endpoint MUST accept and validate the DPoP proof sent in the DPoP HTTP header. The Token endpoint MUST validate the DPoP proof based on the steps defined in Section 4.3 of the DPoP specifications `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_. Thus, this mitigates the misuse of leaked or stolen access tokens at the credential endpoint. If the DPoP proof is invalid, the Token endpoint returns an error response, according to Section 5.2 of [:rfc:`6749`] with ``invalid_dpop_proof`` as the value of the error parameter. 
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **client_id**

>       - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`
    * - **grant_type**

>       - It MUST be set to “authorization_code”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set to “authorization_code”.
```

      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **code**
      - Authorization code returned in the Authentication Response.
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **redirect_uri**

>       - It MUST be set as in the request object :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set as in the request object :ref:`Table of the JWT Request parameters <table_jwt_request>`.
```

      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **code_verifier**

>       - Verification code of the **code_challenge**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Verification code of the **code_challenge**.
```

      - `Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636>`_
    * - **client_assertion_type**
      - It MUST be set to ``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer``.
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_
    * - **client_assertion**
      - JWT signed with the Wallet Instance's private key containing the following parameters:
      
        - **iss**: This MUST contain the client_id.
        - **sub**: This MUST contain the iss. 
        - **aud**: URL of the PID Provider Token Endpoint.
        - **iat**: UNIX Timestamp with the time of the JWT issuance, coded as NumericDate as indicated in RFC 7519.
        - **exp**: UNIX Timestamp with the expiry time of the JWT, coded as NumericDate as indicated in RFC 7519.
        - **jti**: Unique Identifier for this authentication request, generated by the client. E.g., uuid4 format.
      - `Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>`_

> A **DPoP proof** is included in an HTTP request using ``DPoP`` as a request header claim containing a DPoP signed JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **DPoP proof** is included in an HTTP request using the ``DPoP`` header parameter containing a DPoP JWS.
```

      - [:rfc:`7519`. Section 4.1.6].

Response
^^^^^^^^

Token endpoint response MUST contain the following mandatory claims.

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **access_token**
      - The *DPoP-bound Access Token*, in signed JWT format, allows accessing the Credential Endpoint for obtaining the PID.
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
    * - **token_type**
      - Type of *Access Token* returned. It MUST be equal to ``DPoP``.
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
    * - **expires_in**
      - Expiry time of the *Access Token* in seconds.
      - `The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>`_
    * - **c_nonce**
      - JSON string containing a nonce to be used to create a *proof of possession* of key material when requesting a Credential. 
      - [OpenID4VCI]
    * - **c_nonce_expires_in**
      - JSON integer denoting the lifetime in seconds of the **c_nonce**.
      - [OpenID4VCI]

Access Token
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> A DPoP-bound Access Token is provided by the PID Provider token endpoint as a result of a successful token request. The Access Token is represented as JWT according to [:rfc:`7519`]. The Access Token MUST have at least the following mandatory claims and it MUST be bound to the public key that is provided by the DPoP proof. This binding can be accomplished based on the methodology defined in Section 6 of `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DPoP-bound Access Token is provided by the PID Provider Token endpoint as a result of a successful token request. The Access Token is represented as JWT according to [:rfc:`7519`]. The Access Token MUST have at least the following mandatory claims and it MUST be bound to the public key that is provided by the DPoP proof. This binding can be accomplished based on the methodology defined in Section 6 of `[DPoP-draft16] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop-16>`_.
```

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 20 60 20
  :header-rows: 1

  * - **Claim**
    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **iss** 

>     - It MUST be an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID Provider. The client MUST verify that this value matches the called PID Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It MUST be an HTTPS URL that uniquely identifies the PID Provider. The client MUST verify that this value matches the PID Provider where it has requested the credential.
```

    - [:rfc:`9068`], `[RFC7519, Section 4.1.1] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7519>`_.
  * - **sub** 

>     - It identifies the principal that is the subject of the JWT. It MUST be of type *pairwise*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It identifies the subject of the JWT. It MUST be of type *pairwise* according to `OIDC.Core`_.
```

      - It MUST be equal to ``dpop+jwt``. 
      - [:rfc:`7515`] and [:rfc:`8725`. Section 3.11].
    * - **alg** 

>       - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`  and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>` and MUST NOT be none or an identifier for a symmetric algorithm (MAC).
```

Request
^^^^^^^

> A Wallet Instance makes a PID Request to the PID Provider Credential endpoint by sending the following mandatory parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the application/json media type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Wallet Instance makes a PID Request to the PID Provider Credential endpoint by sending the following mandatory parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the *application/json* media type.
```
